Aj sik mitraaN dee vadheeri ay (with english translation) Naat Lyrics
Aj sik mitraa(n) dee vadheeri ay
Kyon dilree udaas ghaneree ay
Loo loo vich shawq changeri ay
Aj nainaa(n) laiyaa kyon jhariyaa!
Today the yearning for the loved one is great indeed!
Why is my heart saddened, like a reed?
The desire is aflame, running through my veins!
Why are my adoring eyes today dazzled by the beloved?
Jairee lazzat rovan andar
O vich bayaan nai'een aavay
Rona dil dee mel utaaray
Naalay man dee rog gavaavay
The pleasure which is in crying
Cannot be expressed by mere words
Crying removes the dirt from the heart
And also lessens the sorrows o' the self.
Rona ishq dee shaan vidaavay
Naalay ruthray yaar milaavay
A'zam rovan dhovan waala
Kadee dozakh vich na jaavay
Weeping increases the status of ardent love
And it also helps angry-lovers to make up and meet
Azam, he who is always crying and wailing
Will never enter the Hell-fire!
Mukh chan badr shah shaani ay
Matthay chamkay laaT noorani ay
Kaali zulf tay akh mastaani ay
Mahmoor akheen hain madh bhariyaan
His face is like the full moon, worthy of his regal stature!
A radiant light shines on his brow
His tresses are black, his eyes are intoxicating!
Those dreamy eyes are full of the wine of love!
Kee `ijaz nazar vich teri
JaiRa aavay ohh vik jaavay
Paishaani tay chamak noorani
Vich nainaan kajal suhaavay
What miracles are in your eyes
Whoever comes to you sells himself
A radiant light on your brow
Black kohl like ash in your eyes
Lambi zulf Habib mere dee
Tay jeevain lambi raat hijr dee
Matthay vichon laaTaan niklan
Tay jeevain tal'at mihr sehr dee
Long are the tresses of my beloved
Like the long night of separation
Rays of light emerge from his forehead
Like the brilliance of the morning sun!
Nain niraalay mast raseelay
Vich jhalak `maa zagha' basr dee
A'zam chamak dandaan day aagay
Kee qeemat qadr gohar dee!
His eyes are unique, causing one to become drunk
Containing within them the flash of, "the eyes did not swerve"
Azam in front of the brightness of his teeth
What value do pearls have?!
Is surat noo mein jaan aakhaan
Jaanaan ke jaan-e-jahaan aakhaa
Sach aakhaan tay Rabb dee shaan aakhaa
Jis shaan too shaanaan sab baniyaa
Shall I call this countenance my soul?
Or my soul's soul? Or the soul of the worlds?
If I speak truthfully, I shall call it the glory of my Lord
The glory from which all others were created!
Subhan Allah! Maa ajmalaka
Maa ahsanaka, maa akmalaka
Kithay Mihr Ali kithay teri sanaa
Gustaakh akheen kithay jaa ariyaan!
Glory be to Allah! There is no one more beautiful than thee!
No one more excellent than thee, no one more perfect!
What is the status of Mihr Ali that he dares to praise thee?
Where have these insolent eyes dared to gaze?
Connect With us