Bahar-e jan fiza tum ho, nasim-e gulsitan tum ho Naat Lyrics
Bahar-e jan fiza tum ho, nasim-e gulsitan tum ho
Bahar-e bag-e rizwan tum se hai, zaibe jinan tum ho
You are spring for the air that gives life; you are the morning breeze of the gardens.
The spring for the gardens of heaven is from you, you are the adornment of eternal bliss!
khuda ki saltanut ka do-jahan main kaun dulha hai,
tumhee, tum ho, tumhee, tum ho, yahan tum ho, wahan tum ho
Who is the groom in the kingdom of God,
It is, You! It is, You! Here, are you and there, are you!
haqiqat se tumharijuz khuda aur kaun waqif hai,
kahe tu kya kahe koyee, chuneen tum ho, chunaan tum ho
Other than God, who knows your reality?
If we say, then what shall we say, you are this and you are that!
nazar ‘arif ka har‘ alam main aya aap ka ‘alam,
na hote tum tu kya hota, bahar har jahan tum ho
I saw your world, in all the worlds of the Aarif,
If you were not, then what would have been, you are the prime for all the worlds!
kuju hum khaak uftadah, kuja tum ae shah-e bala,
agar misl-e zamin hum hain, tu miṣl-e asman tum ho
Where do we stand with you as we are dead earth [where nothing grows] and exalted are You
If we are like the earth then, you are like the sky
yeh kya main ne kaha miṣl-e sama tum ho ma’azallah,
munazzah misl se burtar-ze har wehm-aw-guman tum ho
What have I said, that you are like the sky, God Forbid!
Pure and above are you from all thoughts and assumptions
main bhula aap ki rif’at se nisbat hee hamein kya hai,
woh kehne bhar kee nisbat thee, kahan hum hain, kahan tum ho
I forgot, what reach have we with your exaltedness,
It was just for the sake of saying, as where are we and where are you!
hamein umeed hai rauz-e qiyamat unkee rehmat se,
ke farmayein idhar a’ao na-mayus az-jinan tum ho
We have hope for the final day in his mercy
May he say, come here don't feel hopeless from eternal bliss!
sitam karo, khata karo, siyah karo, jafa karo,
hamare daman-e rehmat main aa ja’oo kahan tum ho
Sinners, evil doers, mistake makers, transgressors,
Come in to our cloak of mercy, where are you all!
tumhare hote saate dard dukh kis se kahoon pyare,
shafi’e asiyan tum ho, waqil-e mujriman tum ho
With you being there who else would I tell my pains and grievances
The intercessor for the disobedient ones is you, the representative for the criminals is you!
riyazat ke yahee din hain burhape main kahan himmat,
jo kuch karna hai abhi karlo, abhi noori jawan tum ho
For striving, these are the days, in old age what courage or strength will we have,
Whatever you wish to do, do now, as now O' Noori, young, are you!
faqat nisbat ka jaise hoon haqiqi noori ho ja’oon,
mujhe jo dekhe keh uthe miyan noori, miyan tum ho
As I am Noori in relation only, may I become alike in its real terms,
So that all who see me would say, Miya! Noori Miya are you!
Submit By Zaid Qadri
Connect With us